Near North Makerspace Community Guidelines and Code of Conduct

1. Mission and Vision

The Mission of the Near North Makerspace is to enhance wellbeing by making creativity
accessible to everyone in Nipissing District.

Near North Makerspace is a warm and welcoming creative hub. Whether arriving with curiosity
or with skills to share, artists and makers can tinker, play, and explore. Through an inclusive
culture of making, we foster collaboration and create space for people across generations and
communities to find belonging.

2. Near North Makerspace Culture & Maker Citizenship
One of the primary goals of Near North Makerspace is the inclusion and support of all members
of the North Bay community who are drawn to hands-on creation in its many forms: making,
hacking, DIY culture, and artistic practice.

As such, we are committed to providing a friendly, safe, and welcoming environment for all,
regardless of gender identity and expression, sexual orientation, ability, ethnicity, socio-
economic status, age, or religion.

Our Community Guidelines increase maker culture & citizenship by encouraging members to
recognize and strengthen the relationships between their actions and their impacts on our
community. Communities mirror the societies in which they exist and positive action is essential
to counteract the many forms of inequality and abuses of power that exist in society.
We invite all those who participate in our events and who communicate with our organization at
large to help us create a safe and positive experience for everyone involved.

3. Expected Behaviour

Our Community Guidelines highlight our expectations for all individuals who participate in our
space, as well as the steps to address unacceptable behaviour.

We expect members to participate in ways which help further our mission and vision. This means:
- Be respectful in your words and actions.
- Be mindful of your surroundings, your fellow participants, and their projects.
- Use the space and equipment in a safe and responsible manner as many of the tools and in
our space are easily damaged through mishandling.
- Following posted notices regarding tool and resource use
- Cleaning up your workspace and stow away any projects or materials when not in use.
- Before beginning a large-scale, messy, noisy, or smelly project, check in with staff before
proceeding

If you see someone who is making an extra effort to ensure our community is welcoming,
friendly, and encouraging to all participants, please recognize their efforts in person or by
emailing the Makerspace Coordinator (info@nearnorthmakerspace.ca).

4. Tool Safety & Training

Near North Makerspace promotes a culture of safety and responsibility. We provide member
orientation, tool training (when required) and access to Personal Protective Equipment (PPE)
such as safety glasses and hearing protection.

First aid kits, and emergency contact information is available at the:
- Front of the Makerspace at the welcome counter
- Back of the Makerspace on the back counter
Some tools require specialized safety equipment. If this equipment is missing, the tool cannot be
operated until the proper safety equipment is made available.
Members are welcome to supply their own PPE provided it is approved by the Canadian
Standards Association (CSA Group).

Unacceptable behaviour regarding equipment use includes:
- Operating a tool without required Personal Protective Equipment (PPE)
- Using tools that you are not trained on or cleared to use
- Avoiding built-in safety devices, guards or lockouts
- Leaving tools in an unsafe or unusable condition
- Operating any tools under the influence of drugs or alcohol
- Failing to conduct a "fire watch" period after using hot work tools (e.g., heat press)
It is the responsibility of all Members and Guests to maintain and promote this culture in their
own usage, as well as addressing inappropriate or unsafe use of tools by others. If you see
another person operating tools in an unsafe or inappropriate manner, please let staff know.
Members are expected to treat equipment with care. If damage occurs due to misuse or neglect,
members may be held responsible for repair or replacement costs. Normal wear-and-tear or
accidents during proper use are covered by the Near North Makerspace.
Please report all damage immediately.

5. Unacceptable Behaviour

The following behaviours are considered to be detrimental to Near North Makerspace's goal of
being a safe, inclusive, and productive space:

- Violence, threats of violence or violent language directed against another person.
- Sexist, racist, homophobic, transphobic, ableist or otherwise discriminatory jokes and
language.
- Posting or displaying sexually explicit or violent material.
- Personal insults, particularly those related to gender, sexual orientation, race, religion, or
disability.
- Inappropriate physical contact. Do not touch a person, or their projects without their consent.
- Unwelcome attention including sexualized comments, jokes, or advances.
- Deliberate intimidation, stalking or following (online or in person).
- Advocating for, or encouraging, any of the above behavior.
- Sustained disruption of community events, including talks and presentations, or another
member's use of Near North Makerspace space or resources.

6. Consequences of Unacceptable Behaviour

Unacceptable behaviour from anybody in the Near North Makerspace space will not be
tolerated.

Step 1: Anyone asked to stop engaging in unacceptable behaviour is expected to comply
immediately, and an incident report will be forwarded to the Working Group.
Step 2: If the person's behavior is deemed to be egregious, or if they refuse to comply, they will
be removed from the space immediately.
Step 3: Access to the Makerspace will be withheld until the Working Group can review the
incident report and a meeting can be scheduled.
The Working Group reserves the right to suspend or terminate access to, or membership in the
Makerspace. For example, at any one of the above steps.

7. Experiencing Unacceptable Behaviour

Your safety is important to us. If you experience or witness somebody failing to meet expected
behaviour, you are encouraged to choose an option that feels most comfortable for you:
- Address the person’s behaviour directly on your own, or with the support of a staff person.
- Connect with staff in person, by phone (705-482-8070), or by email
(info@nearnorthmakerspace.ca)
- Connect with the Working Group by email (working-group@nearnorthmakerspace.ca)

8. Working Group Responses to Incident Reports

The Working Groups' obligation, first and foremost, is the safety and security of Near North
Makerspace and its members. When a Community Guidelines issue is forwarded to the Working
Group, it will be investigated.

Investigation may include collecting statements from everyone involved, consulting with staff
regarding any safety issues, and determining what the impacted parties consider a resolution.
The Working Group’s goal in this process is not to act as a mediator for member issues - though
it may choose to do so - but to enact the policies outlined in the Community Guidelines.
While some incidents may only require an apology or an agreed upon restitution (e.g.
replacement parts for negligent use), repeated or egregious issues may result in suspension or
termination of membership or access to Near North Makerspace.

Complaints will be kept in our records and will include: the date the complaint was made, the
name of the subject of the complaint, a summary description of the complaint, the name of the
staff person who received the complaint, the response or decision made on the complaint, and
the date the response or decision on the complaint was made.

Both the individual who placed the complaint and the subject of the complaint will be notified of
any outcome(s), decision(s), or response(s).

9. Confidentiality

Near North Makerspace recognizes that all guests and members have a right to privacy and
confidentially.

Information about members will be kept for the duration of their membership, and a period of
seven years thereafter.

Member’s information will not be shared with anyone outside of Makerspace staff and the
Working Group. The one exception to this rule is if this information is subpoenaed by law
enforcement (e.g., in the event of a criminal or civil proceeding).

10. Scope

We expect all Near North Makerspace participants (members, event organizers, sponsors, and other
guests) to abide by this Community Guidelines in all community venues (online and in-
person) as well as in all one-on-one communications pertaining to Near North Makerspace business.
